Project Notes:

Maven is a project build tool(build management tool)

What are some other build management tools?
Gradle, Ant.

Centralized management, you dont IDE to run your test cases.

maven clean --->  deletes target folder, and also deletes duplicate dependencies
maven  test
maven clean verify ---> created report(html)

maven-cucumber-reporting requires/creates report using json file in your runner class.

With Cucumber report plugin we can have Cucumber reports(json file in bdd runner)

Deployment: is the process of delivering new version  of software to the application server.

Aplication server: Apache Tomcat, Jetty(Jenkins is using jetty), Jboss..

Release: is the process of delivering new version of software to the end user/client.(Live)

Release day: We test manually all functions and run regression suite.(previous night we run regression)

If you find a bug, PO decides to move forward and keep that bug in live/production.
If it is a critical one, then they will not release.
Blocker---> Release 

I am following one sprint after:

Current sprint: 
Manual tester are working on new features.
Automation Testers are working on previous sprint.

Automation scripts for regression suite, 6 sprints is done, then you are valuable at this point. 

UI -->2 WEEKS
API --> 1 WEEK
BACK ENDS-->2 WEEKS

INTEGRATIONS

USER ACCEPTANCE 

DEPLOY AND RELEASE.

Most likely I do help with manual after finishing my automation scripts for regression suite of previos sprint. Then I help manual testers.
%60 , %70 percent automation and %30 manual.

PO rely on manual testing rather than automation especially on release day. There are many tests fail in regression suite.

As automation tester I write test for new functionality and I maintain my framework.

What is cucumber flow of execution?

Hook class(@Before-Also you should not extend hooks)--->FeatureFile(Background)---->Scenario---->HookClass(@After)

@Before You can multiple of it.
Background: Precondition for every test scenario in a feature file(Smoke Test)
Background is used in Smoketest for sure!!!
Hook class is optional, as well as background.

Headless is faster but has a problem with uploading. You can take screenshots and everything else.



Source Code ---> Testing UI/API/BackEnd ----> Deploy(Aplication Server) ---> Release


What are we testing with Selenium?

Web applications, and they run on browsers.

How web application works?

Code-->Compile-->Test-->Deploy(jar war files to application server--> run it on the application server.


Cucumber is a tool to apply BDD.

Every story has an acceptance criteria, entire team participate Sprint Planning(First monday of sprint, from 10 am - 12 30 pm). 
Entire team look to the same requirement, so that we don't have much conflict in understanding.(pharmaticul, bank domain(business))

-What do you like you about cucumber(bdd) and agile?

I can not believe how much more requirements we are handling with agile, and with the help of bdd we are very confident about business 
requirements.
PO brings business requirements --> these requirements written into user stories with acceptance criteria(set of predefined requirements
that must be met for current user story) -->BA writes it. PO explains the feature team has to develop and (how this feature should work).


Story grooming:

Daily Scrum meetings(daily standups): 9: 15 (15 minutes)

-Daily stand up meeting is technical review of previous day and current business day.
Whatever task assigned to you, I am working on LMS , Create Client functionality > Finished Testing Two Features --> Started writing 
cucumber features.

1- Have a feature file( scenario outline)
2- Manual Test Case
3- Flow of application: 
4- Features that you are currently testing: 



Sprint Review (Last Friday of Sprint ( 10-12:00 pm, and we have also Retrospective Meeting)


PO is joins and give details about what has been done.
Sprint review is the business review of sprint.
QA lead will share automation and manual test coverage. They share their testing coverage with client, 
they fill out Test Coverage Form(Regression suite coverage, Manual Test Coverage for the current sprint) and sent it to management.

Based on user story-->we create feature files > step definitions

I am using Cucmber to implement BDD into our framework:

-Cucumber allows us write test scenarious from end-user perspective
-In agile, we have limited time boxed sprint(2 weeks), with help of cucumber we can move forward faster and safer(by means of 
miscommunication)
-Cucumber makes test scenarios more undestandble to non-technical people
-Gherkin language ( this is not a programming language-->gherkin is a collections of keywords(given, when, then)

Agile:I can not belive how many feature we are delivering and cofartable about all steps.

What is the difference between data table and examples table?
What is the difference between scenario and scenario outline?
Feature File side!!!

(Data Table:Sceanrio)
Scenario:

When user log in with below credentials

|email|pssword|
//Data table is used to exapnd one specific test step

-----
(Examples Table)-Sceanrio Outline

Scenario Outline:
Given
When
Then

Examples:

|username|password|email|

//Examples or Scenario Outline is used to provide test data to whole scenario.

You can have multiple of those.
Scenario Outlines does same thins as dataprovider in TestNG.

So if we have excel as test data why do we need examples?

We have state wide users/clients. all have different credentials? Zip code makes a different.

When we need to VALIDATE a data (bigger) we use excel, in our project, database admins downaloads test data for us and we use it as 
excel in our framework. We did not get really happy about it, not all testers comfortable with sql. In my previos one i sed it, so I am comfartable.

VALIDATE: User information?

AMEX Credit Card: We were accepting amex and we started to accept it.

There is a change happened in database. +18 to register for class, you need to have highschool degree
You need to be citizen or greencard holder to be eligable.

Our product owner wants some of this data be visible to everybody so that they can see.

Did you create test data? 

QA Manager is taking care of it.


 
 
Retrospective Meeting:( We get lunch catering and have retrospective)
(Never be negative, always share how to solve or how you will improve)

Likes & Unlikes of previous sprint:

What would we do to deliver better?
What something that you want to change in previos sprint?

Our qa environment was not ready?

Island --> If you go to island tell us something you will bring from this sprint.

Every solution can be written to JIRA Confluence tool, evernote...

What did you add to your knowledgebase?
You can give difficult time woth java file exmaples?

How do you add value to your team, framework, testing environments?

Slack reports in Jenkins, we were not getting cucumber reports to slack, and smoke regression notification, I introducced to team.


--------------------
Recruiters( Between Client and You )

Cognizant - 250k - alot of accounts
Accenture
Infosys - 150k
Tata(TCS)

Judge 
Forte 
Global Logic

W2- FULL TIME --> Taxes are taken from your paycheck --> Insurance
1099 - FULL TIME --> Taxes and everything will come out from your end year tax (Same as working for UBER) No benefits

W2 6 MONHTS, 1 Year contract --> $50 $60 per hour 
1099 1 year contract ---> $55

Direct Hire: You are hired by company, no recruiters in between, $85k-$90k 
Contract to hire: 6 month, they will hire you at the end depending on your performance.

$30 not say that, they will offer you $23. Deal, car dealer so do you best!
$45 -$55 
$50 -$55

What is budget for this? 

How much average you are paying somebody with my skills?
Project is important to me, and also technology that I will be working. I would love to move forward and I am interested getting more 
information about this position.
This sounds great....






Bench = 6 months--->1,2,3 months you stay home and they still pay you


Contractors and also vendors. They are not just recruiting but they do project themselves. 
(Cognizant team) QA Lead --> Gives test coverage report to client( bank-qa manager, it manager--> cognizantreports@bank.com)

Recruiters, interested make sure as for job requirements in written form.
You ask recruiter, have placed somebody before? If he says yes, then is it ok to share some feedback and tips?

----------------------

Tell me about Project: 

Bonsai: 

Online accounting, finance application with various features like Account Information, Transactions,
Contracts, Payment & Transfers, Proposals, Invoices and Expenses modules. 

Avalon:
Online Learning Management Systems, administration, documentation, tracking, reporting, and delivery of e-learning  courses.

BONSAI: Online accounting & finance side application with varios features like Account Information, Transactions, Contracts

In application we have multifield features such as Proposal, Contract, Expense, Invoice and Task.

My responsibilty is to test manually and write automation scripts for new features, and maintain framework.

Flow of Application:

1-Create Client
2-Adding proposal and Payment Options
3-Sending Contract
4-Send Invoice 

UI Side:

Creating Client
Validating confirmation pages and data 
Creating Proposal
Creating Invoice 

Flow of cucumber application?

USER STORY --> CUCUMBER SCENARIO -- > WRITE AUTOMATION CODE 


How do you do code review?

Team members getting together (online webonar tool) and developer presents the code, when everybody approves they push code to git, so that anyone can pull.

---------------------

Framework Flow:

PO brings business requirement, BA writes it to jira.

1-For each user story I write a feature file
2-Then we write Java code for scenario steps.

Previous sprint is manually tested, and then I write automation code/scripts for upcoming regression.
Minor Regression: We have at the end of every sprint.

I am using POM(page factory/selenium) and Singleton framework design patterns:

pages (page factory/action to be taken)
runners (@runwith, @cucumberoptions))
stepdefinitions
utilities(functions) driver, browserutilities(functions), configuration reader, excel reader..)

test data:
feature
excel
properties

In current sprint, I am creating page factory.


For the naming convention, we follow google naming conventions, HelloBonsaiUsersSignUp


























----------------------

Window Handles : 

Each time WebDriver object is initiated , a unique alphanumeric number is assigned to each window is opened.
We need to switch the window.

driver.getWindowHanle() ----> Current window handle 

driver.getWindowHandles()-----> Gets all open windows


Set<String> winHandles = driver.getWindowHandles(); 

-Contain duplicate elements.


-----------------------------
Test Reporting:
Q:What king of reporting you have used?
A: TestNG - Extend Reports

CUCUMBER PROJECT --> They were using Cucumber reports throu Jenkins. I actually offered to use Extend reports
which has report, log functionality. Cucumber reports do not provide LOGs. So they were looking for an alternative solution.
When I suggested my manager and team try

Q: Why do we need reporting?
A: for feedback

Test report is a communication between testing team and client (PO, StekeHolder) 
Evaluate current status or quality of product. Application is stable, we should release it to customer.

Details
Clear
Standard
Specific

Correct Report: 

Project Name: 
Test Cycle (Type) -> Functional, Regression, Integrations
Tested functions (Test Cases executed, Test cases failed, Test Cases passed) 
Defect (Defect Priority, Status, Description)---- Defect Life Cycle.


Functional (Regression)
Pass= 200
Fail= 15
Not Executed =10

--------------------------------------------
LOG:
1- System Logs --> Windows related, Linux Servers ---- Linux Related problems 
Our Linux System Admin, takes care of the LOGs, if there is anything to be fixed, Linux Admin open tickets on Jira.

2- Test LOGs
-LOG4G or Extend Logger => Recorded events by Operating System for test execution, consists information related to test run or test cases.
Rather then System.out.println, all test events we use logger to save logs for each test cases. 

Q: Why are you using LOGs. 
A: I want to have it for what I have tested for last 3 days. 

Conditional Statement: 
if(scenario.isPassed) {
log.status ("Test Passed") 
}else {
log.status("Test Failed")
}
 
SMOKE --> In the beginning of project, we see frequent how stable is out application 

Sample LOG: 
isDisplayed

if loingpage.isDisplayed() {
log status ("Login page is displayed")
login button --("login button" Available)
}

log.OSNAME
log.








 
 






























